[MUSIC]
>> Douglas Crockford: The AJAX MONAD.
So here's a snip from an AJAX
library I wrote in 2001.
This was my third AJAX library.
The first one was in 2000.
It was intended to attempt to
bridge The horrible difference
between Netscape 4 and IE 5 was just bad.
After writing that one, I looked at how we
used it and some of the common patterns
and looked for how could I factor
those out to make it nicer.
This was the second attempt at doing that.
And so I've got this Interform constructor
that will make a text node and
I can it where to put it on the screen,
and how big it is, and all of this stuff.
And I just keep cascading these
methods on it and it works,
even adding handling to it and
everything else and
this kind of pattern is
virtually in every AJAX library.
Everybody's doing it.
JavaScript is really good at it and
it makes programming easier.
It's huge and
it turns out it was always MONADs.
This is a library wrote in 2007 for
the ADsafe project.
The idea with ADsafe was we wanted to
allow third party code to run on web page,
but we didn't want it
to get out of control.
So we wanted it to be able
to manipulate the DOM, but
we couldn't let it get direct
access to any DOM node.
Because you can trace any DOM node to
the root and then to the network, and
then everything's lost.
So it had that DOM query thing
which would allow you to
query DOM things, but
it wouldn't return a node.
It would return a MONAD,
which wrapped that mode and
that MONAD came with lots of methods which
allowed you to manipulate it without
actually getting at the dangerous stuff.
So MONADs have a nice security policy,
as well.
So in order to fully AJAXify this,
we want to go from
the original form which was
monad.bind to monad.method.
Because we don't want people
to have to type bind and
supply functions in order to do
what is normally just a name thing.
And while we're doing that, we should
also allow the method to have lots of
arguments, because who knows what
we want to do with it eventually.
And so we'll have bind take
a second optional parameters,
which is an array of arguments.
These things could be
completely equivalent.
This is just the nicer notation.
So I'm going to extend my macroid.
I'm gonna make two changes.
One is I'm going to create a prototype
object which will be associated
with the unit function, so
that all of the objects that the unit
function makes will be inheriting
from that prototype and so
when I make the objects that's
where they get their material.
>> Douglas Crockford: Then I will modify
my bind method to take that option
array of parameters.
And again, because arguments
are not arrays in a silly language,
you get crap like that which is
just horrible and inexcusable.
But fortunately in the next edition,
we'll get the dot, dot, dot,
operator and then it just becomes dice.
So I can just say, okay,
I've got that array of arguments.
Good, spread it out.
That's done.
So that's really easy.
So I've now got any number of parameters
on the methods that bind is making.
>> Douglas Crockford: Then I can add
methods now to that prototype and
I'll do that by putting
a method method on the unit.
So now the unit function itself is MONAD,
right,
because I can call MONAD and
it returns a unit at the end.
That's what a MONAD does.
So I can say, dot method,
dot method, dot method and
add as much material as I want to it,
but I can do even better.
I can create a lift method
which is like the other one,
except that it will wrap
the calling of bind for me.
So I can pass in ordinary functions and
it will return a function which calls
bind, and takes the result of bind,
and calls unit on it which is
what the axiom says it has to do.
So I can completely hide all
the stiff about what MONAD do and
what bind does in the said function,
it's all wonderful.
So this survey as a question, if you
got a system that looks exactly like
something that a MONAD system would
create is in itself a MONAD and
there are people who
will argue about that.
Some will say, well,
if it doesn't have bind in it or
something that is called bind or
something like the Amtrak logo or
something else, then it's not a MONAD,
but I think it is.
If it's indistinguishable, then who cares.
So this is how I would use the AJAX MONAD.
I'm gonna come my macroid again and
call its lift,
the lift method on its result.
Let's say,
add an alert method to the MONAD.
So I can make my AJAX thing as before
with hello world and bind still works.
So I could call bind here, but
I can also call alert directly,,
because I added alert to
MONAD with my lift method.
And so that works.
And so it's now AJAX, okay?
Expected some applause,
but that's all right.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Douglas Crockford: So let's move on.